If you have severe atherosclerosis symptoms
or narrowing in your arteries
your doctor may recommend angioplasty.
Angioplasty is a procedure used to open narrowed arteries
that supply blood to the body.
The blocked artery may be anywhere in your body.
In this procedure, your healthcare provider
inserts a long thin tube, called a catheter
into the narrowed or blocked artery.
A small, deflated balloon
is passed through the catheter to the narrowed area.
The balloon is inflated to stretch the narrowed artery.
Then the balloon is deflated.
A small mesh tube, called a stent,
may be left to help keep the artery open.
The balloon and the catheter are removed.